        Dated          					 2017	
------------
Lease
relating to
Watermoor Lodge, Lewis Lane, Stroud, GL5 1QG
between
Stroud Deaf Trust 
(Landlord)
and
Stroud West College 
(Tenant)
Contents
Clause
Appendix
This lease is dated					2017
Parties
Stroud Deaf Trust incorporated and registered in England and Wales with company number 05737205 and charity number 1006748 whose registered office is at Lewis Lane, Stroud, GL5 1QG (Landlord)
Doncaster College, a further education corporation and exempt charity whose principal place of business is at Doncaster College, The HUB, Chappell Drive, Doncaster DN1 2RF (Tenant)
Agreed terms
Interpretation
The definitions and rules of interpretation set out in this clause apply to this lease.
1954 Act: Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
Academic Year: means any continuous period of 12 calendar months beginning on 1 September.
Academic Term: the Tenant’s Academic Year Calendar terms, the beginning and end dates of which shall be as notified to the Landlord by the Tenant prior to the beginning of the relevant Academic Year or as otherwise amended from time to time by the Tenant giving the Landlord notice. 
Additional Usage: means any use by the Tenant of the Sports Facilities:
(i)	during the Agreed Times for any purpose other than those described in clause 3.11.1(a); or
(ii)	outside the Agreed Times for any purpose.
Appendix 1a: the Plan attached at Appendix 1 and marked 'Appendix 1a'.
Appendix 1b: the Plan attached at Appendix 1 and marked 'Appendix 1b'.
Car Parking: the area shown on Appendix 1b and referred to as Stroud West College Car Park to be used only in accordance with the rights granted to the Tenant as set out in this Lease. 
College Equipment: means any sports equipment or other items brought onto the Sports Facilities by the Tenant which shall be reasonably and properly required by the Tenant in order to use the Sports Facilities for the purposes permitted by this Lease.
DDT Teaching Area: the area shown hatched green on Appendix 1a.
Agreed Times: the periods during which the Sports Facilities are to be made available to the Tenant (in accordance with the terms of this Lease), which shall be those periods referred to in Appendix 3 or as otherwise agreed or determined in accordance with clauses 3.11.2 or 3.11.3 of this Agreement.
Inspectorate:  means any inspectorates which the Tenant notifies to the Landlord from time to time as being permitted to inspect the Tenant’s activities, including without limitation the Office for Standards in Education (OFSTED)
Insured Risks: fire and such other risks as the Landlord in its absolute discretion deems appropriate.
Neighbouring Property: any land or premises adjoining or neighbouring the Premises in which the Landlord has a freehold or a leasehold interest.
Order: the Regulatory Reform (Business Tenancies) (England and Wales) Order 2003.
Premises: the premises described in the First Schedule and includes:
(1)	the whole and each and every part of the Premises;
(2)	any alterations, additions and improvements thereto;
(3)	all fixtures, fittings and apparatus therein;
(4)	the rights hereby granted;
(5)	any Service Media that exclusively serve the Premises;
Rent: One hundred and sixteen thousand seven hundred and sixty six pounds (£116,766) per annum subject to an upwards only annual review in accordance with Schedule 2.
Sports Facilities: The WAC Sports Hall, Sports Field and Outdoor Courts marked on Appendix 1b including for the avoidance of doubt, the tennis courts, gym and changing rooms and all equipment located therein save for any College Equipment. 
Term: the term of 3 years beginning on 1st September 2017.
The Landlord and the Tenant include their respective successors in title.
A covenant by the Tenant not to do any act or thing includes a covenant not to permit such act and to use its best endeavours to prevent such act or thing being done by a third party.
Reference to a statute includes any modification, extension or re-enactment and all orders, regulations and notices made under it.
Singular includes plural and any covenant by the Tenant is joint and several.
Headings are for reference only and do not affect the construction of this lease.
Letting
The Landlord lets the Premises to the Tenant for the Term at the Rent.
Tenant's covenants
The Tenant covenants with the Landlord to comply with this clause 3.
Financial matters
To pay the Rent in three equal instalments in advance on 4 September, 8 January and 9 April in each year.
To pay interest at 4% over the base rate of HSBC on the Rent or any other sum which remains unpaid after the due date calculated from the due date until payment.
To pay all existing and future rates, taxes, charges, assessments, impositions and outgoings charged or assessed on or in respect of the Premises or its occupier save that all charges for gas, electricity, water, drainage, heating used by or available to the Premises are included within the Rent.
Repair
To maintain, clean, decorate and keep in good repair the whole of the Premises and whenever the Term ends to yield up the Premises with vacant possession so maintained, cleaned, decorated and repaired.
Alterations
Not to make any structural or exterior alterations or additions to the Premises and not to make any other alterations or additions except with the written consent of the Landlord (which the Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold).
Use
Not to use the Premises or any part of them other than as the following:
the area hatched blue on Appendix 1A as Teaching and staff facilities 
the area shaded red on Appendix 1B as residential bedrooms for students for 34 weeks a year only which fall within the Academic Term.  
Assignment
Subject to clause 3.6.2, not to assign the Premises nor underlet or part with or share possession or occupation of the whole or part of the Premises nor grant any third parties rights over them 
The Landlord agrees that, in the event that the Tenant notifies the Landlord that the Tenant is to merge with North Lane College Further Education Corporation ("NLC") or that the Tenant is to be acquired by an entity (“Controlling Body”) that will own or does own NLC ("Merger"):
The Landlord consents to the assignment, with effect from the effective date of any such Merger, of the Tenant’s rights, obligations and liabilities under this Lease to NLC or the Controlling Body (as the case may be); and
The Landlord and the successor charitable body including NLC and/or Controlling Body ( as the case may be )shall perform (or procure the performance of) all further acts and things, and execute and deliver (or procure the execution or delivery of) to each other of all further documents which are necessary to give effect to any such assignment.
	but subject to any successor charitable body including NLC and/or Controlling Body ( as the case may be ) giving a direct covenant to the Landlord to comply with the terms of this Lease from the date of such assignment.
Statutory compliance
To comply with the provisions of all statutes and regulations from time to time in force and requirements of the insurers or any competent authority relating to the Premises and their use.
To comply with all statutes, regulations and orders relating to town and country planning and not to apply for planning permission nor carry out any development of the Premises which requires planning permission.
Regulations
To comply with the following regulations:
not to hold an auction or public or political or religious meeting on the Premises;
not to use the Premises for any activity which is dangerous, offensive, noxious, noisy, illegal or immoral or which are or may become a nuisance or annoyance to the Landlord or to the owners or occupiers of any neighbouring or adjoining property;
to keep the Premises secure outside normal working hours;
to keep the Tenant's contents and fixtures and fittings insured;
not to permit any refuse to remain on the Premises other than in proper receptacles and to remove all which may have accumulated at least once every week;
not to erect any signs without the Landlords consent (which the Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold);
to ensure that there is a hall warden or trusted student provided by the Tenant on the Premises at all times when the residential accommodation is being used to act as student liaison and fire marshall for the building. 
Expenses
To pay as additional rent all expenses and fees (including bailiffs' fees) incurred by the Landlord relating to the collection of rent arrears or the contemplation, preparation and service of a schedule of dilapidations and / or a notice under sections 146 or 147 of the Law of Property Act 1925 (notwithstanding that forfeiture is avoided otherwise than by relief granted by the Court) or in connection with every application for consent made under this lease.
Access etc
To allow the Landlord and its students access over and across the Premises for the purposes of access to and egress from the DDT Teaching Area. 
To allow the Landlord to enter the Premises at all reasonable times on notice to inspect it and carry out any other function which the Landlord may reasonably require. 
To facilitate the Landlord's access to the residential bedrooms at all times outside the weeks referred to in clause 3.5.1(b) for the Landlord's temporary use, including the right for the Landlord to use the residential bedrooms for a residential summer school, (subject to the Landlord making good any damage caused to the Premises or the Tenant's fixtures, fittings and contents in the exercise of this right) and leaving the Premises clean and tidy.
If the Landlord gives the Tenant notice of any failure to do works required by this lease to start the work immediately and proceed with it diligently.  In default to allow the Landlord to enter the Premises to do it and to pay the Landlord the cost as a debt on demand.
To allow the Landlord to use and create services through any part of the Premises.
To allow the Landlord to enter the Premises to clean, decorate, repair, alter or rebuild any part of the Premises or Neighbouring Property and any services and to use or deal with the Neighbouring Property in such manner as the Landlord thinks fit notwithstanding that the access of light and air to the Premises may be obstructed or diminished.
To allow anyone who reasonably needs access in order to inspect, decorate, clean or repair any neighbouring or adjoining property or any services serving them to enter the Premises at any reasonable time.  The person requiring access must give reasonable notice and promptly make good any damage caused to the Premises.
To allow the Landlord to enjoy the light, air, shelter, support, protection and all other easements now or during the Term belonging to or enjoyed by any Neighbouring Property.
Sports Facilities
Subject to clause 3.11.3, the Tenant shall be permitted to use, and the Landlord shall be obliged to make available to the Tenant, the Sports Facilities: 
for no more than 17 hours a week for 30 weeks of each Academic Year (such weeks to be during the Academic Terms only) for the purposes of, and in connection with, the Tenant’s curriculum delivery;
in connection with hours stated in clause 3.11.1(a) above, the Landlord shall use best endeavours to make the Sports Facilities available to the Tenant during the Agreed Times.
The Tenant shall, on or before the 30 July in each year, notify the Landlord of the Tenant’s proposed Agreed Times for the next  Academic Year.  The Landlord shall, acting reasonably, notify the Tenant as to whether the Landlord is able to agree to the proposed Agreed Times (such agreement not to unreasonably withheld or delayed).  If the Landlord is unable to agree to the Tenant’s proposed Agreed Times, the parties shall agree alternative Agreed Times for the next Academic Year.  Unless and until the parties have agreed the Agreed Times in respect of any Academic Year the Agreed Times for that Academic Year shall be the same as those for the immediately preceding Academic Year as at the final day of the immediately preceding Academic Year.  The Agreed Times for the first Academic Year of this Lease are as set out in Appendix 3.  
The Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours to make the WAC Sports Hall available to the Tenant during the Agreed Times.  If, for any reason, the Landlord is unable to make the WAC Sports Hall available to the Tenant during the Agreed Times, the Landlord shall inform the Tenant immediately and shall offer alternative times for the Tenant to use the WAC Sports Hall.  
If the Tenant requires any Additional Usage of the Sports Facilities (including but not limited to where the Tenant requires Additional Usage on a daily, weekly or other regular basis) the Tenant shall contact the Landlord.  The Landlord shall respond to any request for Additional Usage as soon as reasonably practicable in order to notify the Tenant as to whether the Landlord is able to agree to such Additional Usage (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and as to what (if any) additional charge will apply to such Additional Usage (which shall not exceed the Landlord’s standard rates in force at the time the Additional Usage is exercised).  The Landlord shall not prioritise any third party requests for usage of the Sports Facilities ahead of the Tenant’s requests for Additional Usage.  If the parties agree to any Additional Usage pursuant to this clause 3.11.4:
the Landlord shall make the Sports Facilities available to the Tenant for such Additional Usage; and
the Tenant shall pay any additional charges applicable to such Additional Usage in accordance with the relevant payment terms agreed between the parties.
Each party covenants that it shall comply with any rules or regulations relating to the use of the Sports Facilities which are agreed between the parties from time to time (including but not limited to in relation to health and safety and safeguarding). 
The Landlord shall:
keep and maintain the Sports Facilities in accordance with the reasonable standard expected of a reasonable service provider, which means in a fit, proper, good and workable condition so as to be capable of being used safely by the Tenant, the Tenant’s staff and the Tenant’s students; 
comply with all mandatory legal requirements which apply to the Landlord’s making available of the Sports Facilities;
permit the Tenant to store at the Tenant's own risk the College Equipment within such parts of the Sports Facilities as may be agreed in writing by the parties from time to time during the Term at and shall not permit any person to use any College Equipment without prior written authorisation from the Tenant; and  
without prejudice to any of the remaining provisions of this Lease, maintain with a reputable insurance company public liability insurance with a limit of indemnity of not less than £5 million sterling per occurrence or series of occurrences arising out of the same event.
The Landlord shall not, in respect of any Academic Year where the Agreed Times for that Academic Year are not yet known, make any advance bookings for any third party to use the Sports Facilities where such advance booking would be reasonably likely (based on the previous Year’s Agreed Times) to fall within the Agreed Times for that Academic Year.  
The Landlord shall at all times during the Agreed Times and any agreed period of Additional Usage,  grant access to the Sports Facilities to the Tenant, the Tenant’s representatives, any Inspectorate and all persons who are employees of, students of or otherwise involved with the Tenant (provided that Inspectorates shall only be permitted access during Academic Terms).
Landlord's covenants
The Landlord covenants with the Tenant as follows:
so long as the Tenant does not contravene any term of this lease to allow the Tenant peaceably to enjoy the Premises for the Term;
to keep the Premises insured in their full reinstatement value against loss or damage by the Insured Risks and one year's loss of Rent;
to allow the Tenant access over such part of the Neighbouring Property as is necessary in order to gain access to the Premises from the adopted highway;
to allow the Tenant to receive any services through Neighbouring Property;
to allow the Tenant to enter Neighbouring Property to inspect, clean, decorate and repair the Premises or any services serving them which would not otherwise be reasonably practicable subject to giving the Landlord reasonable notice causing as little disturbance as possible and making good all damage caused to the Neighbouring Property.
to maintain any areas used in common by the Landlord and the Tenant so as to be safe and fit for the uses to which such areas are put.
Further agreements
The Landlord is entitled to forfeit this lease by entering any part of the Premises whenever:
the Rent is 21 days late even if it was not formally demanded; or
the Tenant has not complied with any covenant in this lease; or
the Tenant (being a company) goes into liquidation; is deemed unable to pay its debts; has a receiver, manager, administrative receiver or administrator appointed; or makes or suffers to be made a proposal for a voluntary arrangement or for a compromise or arrangement; or
the Tenant (being an individual) presents or has presented to the court a bankruptcy petition; or makes or suffers to be made a proposal for a voluntary arrangement or an application for an interim order.
The forfeiture of this lease does not cancel any outstanding obligation which the Tenant owes to the Landlord.
During any period (maximum one year) when all or part of the Premises cannot be used because of damage from an Insured Risk the Rent shall be cancelled or reduced as appropriate unless or to the extent that the insurers do not pay under the policy because of the Tenant's act or omission.  Any dispute whether and how this clause applies is to be referred to arbitration.
The rules as to service of notices in section 196 of the Law of Property Act 1925 apply to any notice under this lease.
The Tenant has a right of access of such parts of the Neighbouring Property as are required to gain access to the Premises from the adopted highway and the right to receive any services through the Neighbouring Property.
Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 
The Landlord has served on the Tenant a notice in relation to this lease in the form set out in schedule 1 to the Order.
The Tenant (or a person duly authorised by the Tenant) has made a statutory declaration in the form set out in paragraph 8 of schedule 2 to the Order a copy of which is attached as Appendix 2.
The parties agree that the provisions of sections 24 to 28 of the 1954 Act be excluded in relation to this lease.
The Tenant is not entitled to any compensation under section 37 of the 1954 Act when this lease ends.
This lease is not granted pursuant to an agreement for lease.
Termination
This Lease can be terminated by either party on 31 August in each year by serving no less than six months notice in writing on the other party. 
On the termination of this Lease everything contained in the Lease ceases and determines but without prejudice to any claim by either party against the other in respect of any antecedent breach of any obligation contained in the Lease.
Charities Act 2011 
The Property is held by Stroud Deaf Trust a non-exempt charity and the restrictions on dispositions imposed by section 117 to 121 of the Charities Act 2011 apply to the Property (subject to section 117 (3) of that Act).
The Trustees of Stroud Deaf Trust certify that they have power under its trusts to effect this disposition and that they have complied with the provisions of the said sections 117-121 so far as applicable to this disposition.
The property will as a result of this Lease be held by Stroud West College an exempt charity.
This lease has today been executed by the parties.
Premises 
"the Premises" means the rooms edged red on Appendix 1a including: 
the plaster or plasterboard attached to:
	the interior of the exterior walls of the Building but no other part of the exterior walls;
	the outer face of any structural supporting column but no other part of such column;
the plaster or plasterboard comprising the ceiling of the Premises but not the joists, beams or cross members to which they are attached;
the floor boards or concrete floor screeds but not the joists, supporting beams or cross members upon which they rest;
the entirety of all non-load bearing walls within the Premises;
the inner half severed medially of any non-load bearing wall which divides the Premises from other parts of the Building;
all floor coverings;
all internal and external windows and window frames;
the door giving access to the Premises and the door frame surrounding it.
 Rent Review 
Definitions
Annual Rent: rent at an initial rate of £116,766 per annum and then as revised pursuant to this lease.
Base RPI Month: July 2017
Base Rent: rent of £116,766  per annum.
Interest Rate: the base rate from time to time of Barclays Bank PLC or if that base rate stops being used or published then at a comparable commercial rate reasonably determined by the Landlord.
RPI: the Retail Prices Index or any official index replacing it.
Rent Payment Dates: 4 September, 8 January and 9 April in each year
Review Date: 1 September in each year. 
Review of the Annual Rent
In this clause, the President is the President for the time being of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors or a person acting on his behalf (President), and the Surveyor is the independent valuer appointed pursuant to clause 1.10 (Surveyor).
The Annual Rent shall be reviewed on each Review Date to equal £116,766 or, if greater, the indexed rent determined pursuant to this clause.
The indexed rent for a Review Date shall be determined by multiplying the Base Rent by the All Items index value of the RPI for the month two months before the month in which that Review Date falls, then dividing the product by the All Items index value of the RPI for the Base RPI Month.
The Landlord shall calculate the indexed rent as soon as reasonably practicable and shall give the Tenant written notice of the indexed rent as soon as it has been calculated.
If the revised Annual Rent has not been calculated by the Landlord and notified to the Tenant on or before a Review Date, the Annual Rent payable from that Review Date shall continue at the rate payable immediately before that Review Date. No later than ten working days after the revised Annual Rent is notified by the Landlord to the Tenant, the Tenant shall pay the shortfall (if any) between the amount that it has paid for the period from the Review Date until the Rent Payment Date following the date of notification of the revised Annual Rent and the amount that would have been payable had the revised Annual Rent been notified on or before that Review Date.
Time shall not be of the essence for the purposes of this clause.
Subject to clause 1.8, if there is any change to the methods used to compile the RPI, including any change to the items from which the All Items index of the RPI is compiled, or if the reference base used to compile the RPI changes, the calculation of the indexed rent shall be made taking into account the effect of this change.
The Landlord and the Tenant shall endeavour, within a reasonable time, to agree an alternative mechanism for setting the Annual Rent if either:
the Landlord or the Tenant reasonably believes that any change referred to in clause 1.7 would fundamentally alter the calculation of the indexed rent in accordance with this clause 1, and has given notice to the other party of this belief; or
it becomes impossible or impracticable to calculate the indexed rent in accordance with this clause 1.
This alternative mechanism may (where reasonable) include, or consist of, substituting an alternative index for the RPI. In default of agreement between the Landlord and the Tenant on an alternative mechanism for setting the Annual Rent, the Surveyor shall determine an alternative mechanism.
The Surveyor shall determine a question, dispute or disagreement that arises between the parties in the following circumstances:
where any question or dispute arises between the parties as to the amount of the Annual Rent payable or as to the interpretation, application or effect of any part of this clause 1; or
where the Landlord and the Tenant fail to reach agreement under clause 1.8.
The Surveyor shall have full power to determine the question, dispute or disagreement, and shall have power to determine any issue involving the interpretation of any provision of this Lease, his jurisdiction to determine the question, dispute or disagreement referred to him or his terms of reference. When determining such a question, dispute or disagreement, the Surveyor may, if he considers it appropriate, specify that an alternative mechanism for setting the Annual Rent should apply to this lease, and this includes (but is not limited to) substituting an alternative index for the RPI.
The Surveyor shall be an independent valuer who is a Member or Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The Landlord and the Tenant may, by agreement, appoint the Surveyor at any time before either of them applies to the President for the Surveyor to be appointed.
The Surveyor shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator. The Surveyor's decision shall be given in writing, and the Surveyor shall provide reasons for any determination. The Surveyor's written decision on the matters referred to him shall be final and binding in the absence of manifest error or fraud.
The Surveyor shall give the Landlord and the Tenant an opportunity to make written representations to the Surveyor and to make written counter-representations commenting on the representations of the other party to the Surveyor. The parties will provide (or procure that others provide) the Surveyor with such assistance and documents as the Surveyor reasonably requires for the purpose of reaching a decision.
Either the Landlord or the Tenant may apply to the President to discharge the Surveyor if the Surveyor:
dies;
becomes unwilling or incapable of acting; or
unreasonably delays in making any determination.
Clause 1.10 shall then apply in relation to the appointment of a replacement.
The fees and expenses of the Surveyor and the cost of the Surveyor's appointment and any counsel's fees, or other fees, reasonably incurred by the Surveyor shall be payable by the Landlord and the Tenant in the proportions that the Surveyor directs (or if the Surveyor makes no direction, then equally). If either the Landlord or the Tenant does not pay its part of the Surveyor's fees and expenses within ten working days after demand by the Surveyor then:
the other party may pay instead; and
the amount so paid shall be a debt of the party that should have paid due and payable on demand to the party that actually made the payment.
The Landlord and the Tenant shall otherwise each bear their own costs in connection with the rent review.
Any signatures on this document are conditional upon the document being dated by or under the authority of the signatories' solicitor.
Plan
Copy tenant's statutory declaration
Agreed Times
Term Dates
Term 1 WC 18/9/17 – WC 1/12/17 
Term 2 WC 22/1/18 – WC 30/5/18

[Table 2]
Signed as a deed by Stroud Deaf Trust acting by a director in the presence of
Director | ...............................................................
Chair of Trustees
...............................................................
...............................................................
[signature of witness]
Name of witness | ...............................................................
Address | ...............................................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
...............................................................

[Table 3]
Executed as a deed by Stroud West College Further Education Corporation by affixing its seal in the presence of the persons named below and delivered at the date hereof: | )
)
)
) | ......................................................................
Executed as a deed by Stroud West College Further Education Corporation by affixing its seal in the presence of the persons named below and delivered at the date hereof: | Chair of Corporation
………………………………………………………..
Member of Corporation

[Table 4]
Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday
10:30am – 12.00pm
HE Sports - on
Sports Field 1.5hrs | 11:30am - 12:30pm
HE Sports
On Outdoor Courts 1hr | 9:00am – 12:00pm
Term 1
HE Sports – 3hrs
on Sports Field and
Outdoor Courts
Term 2
WAC Sports Hall
1:00pm – 3:30pm
 Term 1
HE Sports – 2.5hrs
on Sports Field and
Outdoor Courts
Term 2
Outdoor Courts
1:15pm – 3:15pm
FE Sports
on Sports Field | 2:30pm – 3:30pm 
HE Sports
On Outdoor Courts 1hr
4:00pm – 5:30pm 
Football Team Training
on Sports Field
1.5hrs | 1:30pm – 4:00pm
Football Fixtures on Sports Field
Every Other Week